there's a widespread misconception that
if you jump a moment before the elevator
hits the bottom
you will somehow decrease the impact on
your body
firstly how are you planning to
understand when you should jump
you can't see through metal can you
secondly even if you somehow
manage to jump which is extremely
difficult due to being in a free fall
the speed decrease you can hope for is
about two miles per hour
or three kilometers per hour it's
definitely not enough to save your life
what is worse you might hurt yourself
badly if you hit the ceiling with your
head
jumping is not worth the risk at all
mythbusters tested this approach
believe us it didn't end well for the
dummy inside the elevator
standing up straight and hoping for the
best is also not the best idea
nothing good is coming what is coming is
a weight
10 times larger than that of your own
body dropping on your legs at the moment
of impact
now with all due respect neither you nor
anyone else can survive that
so now that we're clear of what you
should never do in a falling elevator
let's get to the best course of action
your best bet would be to lie flat on
your back
this position will help you distribute
the force of the impact across your
entire body
yes your small thin bones will probably
snap anyway
though it mostly depends on how high up
you were when the cable snap
but it might help you avoid more serious
damage
or not nobody is absolutely certain it's
probably pretty hard to think clearly in
such a situation
but you should also remember to cover
your head with your hands
when the elevator lands it will most
likely be destroyed
so protecting your head from debris
might save your life
if you're trapped under an avalanche
spitting can help you out
as soon as you stop moving make a little
hole around your face
spit in the air pocket and see where
gravity carries your saliva
then start making your way out by
digging in the opposite direction
if suddenly you notice that the water
recedes quickly and
unexpectedly from a beach exposing the
ocean floor
you should warn everyone around and get
away as fast as you can
because when the water line is
abnormally far from the shore
this is a sign of a tsunami no air pump
in a flat tire is a bad combo when
you're far from home
to fix your bike grab a bunch of grass
or leaves
and evenly pack the tire with as much as
possible
that will be enough to reach a safe
place now do you know any other tricks
to fix a flat tire without an air pump
share your wisdom in the comments below
if you're under attack by a moose
those creatures are huge try to hide
behind a tree
those animals have a blind spot in their
peripheral vision
so they will lose you and you can escape
easier
if a black bear is chasing you remember
that you shouldn't turn your back on
this animal or try to ride
either of these actions can make them
hostile your best bet
is to lie flat on your stomach to
protect your organs
crossing your hands behind your neck to
guard your arteries
to convince the bear you don't pose any
threat also
don't climb a tree they do it better
than you oh and if you see yogi bear
don't try to look like a picnic basket
he'll steal you
every time in case of emergency water
landing
don't inflate your life jacket before
getting out of the plane
you'll end up not being able to move
without help since you'll float up to
the cabin ceiling
the safest thing to do is take a deep
breath and swim
out of the airplane taking your deflated
life jacket with you
only when you're out of the plane you
can finally pull the inflation cord
if you're in a cold house and no heating
or electricity is available for some
reason
find a few large bricks a terra cotta
pot
and some candles light the candles and
put the bricks around them
then cover the candles with an upside
down pot placing it on the bricks
now you have a diy heater that can heat
a whole room
if caught in a fire keep low to the
ground
the greatest threat comes not from the
fire itself but the smoke
since it's lighter than air it goes up
so you should stay as close to the floor
as possible to avoid breathing it in
if you're accidentally caught in a rip
current don't try to fight it and swim
straight back to the shore
you'll just get exhausted too soon
instead
try to swim parallel to the shore until
you exit the current
and only then move toward the shore
if you're trapped on thin ice and
there's no one to help you
lie down on your stomach and spread out
your arms and legs
if you have ice picks use them as a grip
to get back to safety
if you don't have them then you'll have
to roll away in the same direction you
came from
this will help to spread out the weight
of your body evenly
if your car conks out in the middle of a
railroad track
and a train is approaching abandon the
vehicle as fast as you can
after that run away from the track but
towards the upcoming train
if you choose the same direction as the
train is moving you'll find yourself in
the path of your late car's debris
and you'll have to duck under the flying
big pieces
the most common heat stroke symptoms are
nausea and dizziness
but how can you be sure if it's heat
stroke if these symptoms are common for
so many other issues
well eat something sweet like a lump of
sugar or
candy if the treat tastes disgusting
immediately seek medical help you're
having a heat stroke
imagine your car got stuck far away from
civilization
and you don't have a phone or radio to
call for help
in this case a simple spare tire can
save your life
while burning it will produce thick
black smoke visible from miles away
and chances are somebody will notice
your sos signal
but remember this never ever wander far
away from your car
all too often rescuers find undamaged
deserted vehicles
while the drivers who've left them in
search of help don't survive
you've probably heard that lightning
doesn't hit in the same place twice
well guess what it's just a
misconception
the probability of a second strike is
pretty high
that's why you should stay away from a
spot hit by lightning
the safest option is to lie down in some
hollow in the ground
since lightning tends to hit higher
grounds get rid of
all metal objects and your mobile phone
three to four seconds before lightning
strikes
you'll feel a metallic taste in your
mouth and your hair will stand on
end immediately sit down bring your
heels together
and place your hands on your knees if
you suspect that some
object might be electrified but you have
to check it
touch it with the back of your hand this
way if your suspicions are correct
you'll get a charge out of it and you'll
be able to snatch your hand back
but if you touch this object with your
palm the electric charge will make your
hand
form a tight fist and you won't be able
to draw it back
you can make a fatal mistake if you
follow the popular misconception
of trying to suck the venom out of a
snakebite
the same goes for applying bandages and
something cold on the wound
or burning it what you have to do is
give the victim an antihistamine
make them drink a lot and take them to a
hospital right away
never touch the area around the wound
otherwise
the venom will spread way faster if
you're calling an emergency service
first of all give them your address only
after that should you explain the reason
for your call
in this case even if something or
somebody forces you to end the
conversation
the operator will already know where to
send help
avoid open fields make sure there's
something taller than you around
like your big tall friend there oops
just kidding
trees buildings and utility poles will
act as lightning rods for you
so never stand close to them also avoid
metal and concrete
they both conduct electricity too well
for comfort
remember that a lightning storm lasts
only from 30 minutes to an hour
so it's always better to lose time and
wait in safety
then risk and get zapped even if you're
dressed warmly enough
there are always some parts of your body
left exposed to cold weather
a simple can of petroleum jelly will
help you with that
apply it to exposed parts of your skin
and it will protect you from frostbite
but don't rely on it for long periods of
time
seek shelter or fire as fast as you can
another trick is to let your shoes a bit
loose it will help blood circulation in
your feet
and will make them warmer you need a
magnet a needle
something floaty like foam or straw and
a glass of water
magnetize a needle by rubbing it against
a magnet
then put two pieces of floaty stuff you
have on both sides of the needle
let it float in the water and it will
eventually stop in one direction
just like a compass it will point to the
north
getting a couple of bites is not that
extreme but trying to find your way in
the wilds without getting a good rest is
dangerous
you can repel all flies and mosquitoes
away by burning herbs
garlic rosemary mint or thyme all of
these herbs smell will scare away all
the pesky insects around
or you can make a trap cut a plastic
bottle in half and put sticky tape on
its edges
pour sugar water inside and add some
yeast
mosquitoes will get attracted to it and
then trapped on the tape
see now you're going to start carrying
yeast with you on your camping trips
hey rise and shine don't let yourself go
dry
use dew and collect rain water having a
tent with you is good anyways
but try to hang it a bit loosely so it
will collect water for you
if there's no such luck as rain tie a
scrolled piece of cloth around your leg
and go through the high grass in the
morning it will collect dew
that you can squeeze out into a bottle
take two containers
one a bit taller than the other fill the
tall container with dirty water
twist a piece of cloth and put one end
of it into the filled container feeding
the other into the empty one
it will take some time but a piece of
cloth will soak up all the moisture
and transport it from one vessel to the
other good news is
all the dirt and debris will be lost in
the process
don't forget to boil the water to
further assure your safety
you'll need a 9 volt battery for that
simply putting both contacts of this
battery against a piece of steel wool
leads to a small short circuit spark
that spreads right away
put some cotton balls to the plates
where the spark appears and here you go
you've started a fire just remember that
you need to
always keep the fire small and have at
least one trusty way to quickly
extinguish it
those currents are streams of water
appearing near the shore
and pulling away from it with huge force
and speed
swimming against a rip current is
useless because they're too strong
but they're also quite narrow so you can
safely swim
alongside the beach in any direction to
get away
as soon as you feel like nothing is
dragging you you can swim
towards the shore just do it at an angle
if breathing mass emerge put on yours
immediately
and only then pay attention to those
around you
try to fly on bigger planes they can
absorb more impact during extreme
landings
the best seats you can get are the five
rows nearest to the emergency exits
statistically the ideal time to get away
from the plane after
crash landing is around 90 seconds
read the safety card and follow all the
instructions of the crew
if you see it's getting alarmingly
crowded try to find
possible escape routes and places to
cover around you
and have more than one direction of
movement in mind
don't try to move against the crowd but
go with it
and to the side instead this way you'll
reach the edge of the stampede
and possibly the escape or cover you
notice before
keep your hands up at all costs they'll
make you room to breathe
look at the parked car before driving if
you see
frost on the rear windows well that's a
big clue
so plan ahead and drive accordingly for
example
your stopping distance should be around
10 times longer than usual
if the car is skidding don't hit the
brakes hard just take your foot off the
accelerator
it will help your car to find grip with
the road again and then you can gently
steer it to the right side
try to wear three layers of clothes the
first layer should repel sweat
the second is for insulation and general
warmth and the external layer
should protect from moisture and wind
avoid wearing cotton
as it gets wet pretty soon and won't
protect you from cold
if you came home after spending lots of
time in the cold
don't rush for a hot tub it's best to
start with changing clothes
and eating warm food don't look them in
the eyes
for animals it'll be a sign you have bad
intentions
don't panic and move slowly give the
animal room to go away freely
if you have a backpack with you don't
stick to it
try to ditch it off your shoulders it
will ease your movements
and also may serve as a distraction
don't scream in animals to look more
menacing
it'll only provoke them to prove you
wrong
the heimlich maneuver a powerful thrust
on the upper part of the stomach
right below the rib cage used to shoot
out whatever got stuck in someone's
throat
you can use it on yourself too just
clench your fist
and put it between your ribs cover it
with a palm of the other hand
and then push once as hard as you can
you need to cough
forcefully during the whole thing in a
wildfire choose where to run depending
on the wind direction
if it's blowing toward the fire then you
should run into the wind
but if the wind's blowing towards you
behind the fire better skedaddle
perpendicular to it
this will help you to avoid both the
flames and the sparks carried by the
wind
when you fall in in cold water and can't
swim to the shore
hug your knees close to your chest if
there are other people with you
huddle together to keep warm do that
until help arrives
don't use water to extinguish a grease
fire water and oil don't mix
so it'll only make things worse you need
to smother the fire by cutting off the
oxygen
put a metal lid over it or a damp rag
to escape from a car trunk boy what a
day
find the trunk release inside it looks
like a glow-in-the-dark handle
all american-made vehicles built after
2002 are required to have it
but if the car is older rip the wires
out of the brake lights and kick them
out
then you'll be able to slip your hand
through the hole and let people know you
need help
if you happen to have an analog watch
you can use it as a compass
place it flat on your palm in the
northern hemisphere
align the hour hand with the sun south
will be halfway between the hour hand
and the 12.
if you're in the southern hemisphere
point the 12 directly at the sun
instead a bee constantly bumping into
you
is a sign of a swarm planning to sting
so
find shelter asap and don't wear dark
clothes in places with bees
they find it threatening so they're
likely to become defensive
if your car broke down in a remote area
without a phone signal
burn one of your tires thick black smoke
will attract attention for sure
always put your electric car key fob on
your bedside table before going to sleep
if a burglar tries to break in at night
press the panic button
the sound of the car alarm will probably
scare them away
now imagine someone is about to tie your
hands with a metal cable
keep your elbows close to your ribs this
way there will be some extra space
between your wrists
when you straighten out your arms
carefully twist your wrists to free one
hand through that space
say you've run out of food out in the
wilderness oh
boy you can actually eat the bark of
some trees mostly birch or pines
cut off the rough darker outer bark to
get to the soft light inner part
you can eat it raw but frying and
boiling it will make it easier to chew
don't walk up or down the stairs with
your hands in your pockets if you slip
or trip
you need to be able to quickly catch the
handrail or protect your head
to open a car with a frozen lock put a
plastic
drinking straw into the keyhole and blow
into it a few times
the heat from your breath will unfreeze
the lock
before going on a camping adventure
prepare some cotton balls soaked in
vaseline
and put them in a closed container now
you'll always have perfect fire starters
no matter whether you live near the
coast or travel there for the weekend
you should know the signs of an
approaching tsunami
it might be a deafening roar that's
coming from the ocean
or some other unusual ocean behavior for
example the water may suddenly drain
showing the ocean floor or vice versa
a wall of water may appear on the
horizon also
pay attention to strange behavior
changes in animals
if they unexpectedly group together hide
in different nooks
leave the area or show extreme anxiety
these may be signs of an approaching
natural disaster
as soon as you hear a tsunami alert
don't wait for even a second
evacuate immediately
leave behind your personal belongings
and documents now is not the time to
think about your possessions
gather your loved ones and use any
available transport to get away from the
coast
hop in your car get on a bike or simply
run as
fast as you can move as far away from
the shore as you can
heading toward high hills mountains or a
forest
if possible go at least two miles inland
and 100 feet above sea level
if you're trapped by the rising water
choose the highest and most solid
building
and climb to the top it's not an ideal
way out
since the construction can collapse
under the force of the tsunami waves
but at least it's something also keep in
mind that roads often get wiped out by
tsunamis
therefore after everything's done you
may have trouble
finding your way back in most cases
tsunamis are closely linked to
earthquakes
that's why you should try to escape to
open areas with no or few buildings to
avoid being hit by falling debris
on top of that stay away from power
lines walls bridges and whatnot
even if these constructions look sturdy
enough they can collapse during the
aftershock